_Released on Friday April 23rd, 2021 at 12:00_

#### Responsive UI
This week we have implemented Responsive UI to improve the performance on smaller monitors. We expect the program to look acceptable down to 500px width and 300px height after which there is not enough space on the screen for the Map and its UI components. Also this release enables support for route-descriptions.

#### Draw roads relevant color
Bigger roads are now drawn with a color with more contrast and more width to distinguish it from other smaller roads.

#### Island and City names
Island and cities are now marked with the name of the city or island.

#### Minor additions
Search works on enter. When there are suggestions and you press enter the first one will be chosen and the fields will react as usual. That is zoom and pan to location for search, and save node id or do an A* search (not yet implemented) for the route fields.
We have moved the scaling-constant to one class to be able to change it from one single place instead of in (many) different files.

Fix pin placement on suggestions as the pin placement was changed when we changed to an icon.

### Added
- Support for .obj saving and loading
- Route description icons
- Route description UI

- Suggestion choosing functionality on enter (#164) 

- Added support for compiling to jar files

### Changed

- Changed styling of UI Markup to improve visual design for smaller monitors.
- The way pin point is set when clicked on suggestion.
- Moved the scaling-constant to one central place in `Model.java`

### Removed

- Removed unused color modes

### Performance Improvements

| Dell XPS15 9500  | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage |  Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| This Week  | ~3ms | ~57mB |   162mB |  2.91s  |
| Last Week  | ~3ms | ~67mB |  81mB | 2,60s  |
**Note:** The Dell XPS15 runs linux and we have some issues wiht fonts and linux causing the perfomance to tank. Therefore the city names were disabled in settings for this test.


| MacBook Pro (Late 2014)  | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage |  Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| This Week  |  ~7ms  |  ~80mB | ~105mB  |  7,776s |
| Last Week  |  ~7ms  |  ~92mB | ~122mB  |  6,928s |

### Feedback
We would like some feedback on the representation of steps in the Astar (astar_test) branch and if it makes sense. Also does our choice of directions make sense, for example we have not included u-turns.

### Next week

#### R-tree
This week, the R-tree has been developed on but is not yet ready to be merged into master. The current developments that 
are made are the following:
- Rectangles have been added to objects that reside within the tree
- The Tree can construct itself from a given list og rectangle-bearing objects.
- The Tree can return a list of objects which reside within a given rectangle.

The next step for the R-tree is to further develop it so that it can:
- help only redraw elements within a given rectangle (the camera)
- find the nearest way


#### AStar 
This week we have implemented transporttypes, directions and a textual description for the A star path. 

We have made an enum Transporttype which model keeps track of. This means that you can change transporttypes in the UI which affects what routes you can take, seeing as if you are in a car you will only be able to take the driveable roads. 

Directions means that in the route description we know whether the vehicle is turning left or right. This is used for the textual description. We have made a step class that holds a Direction enum, the road driven on and the distance travelled. This can then be printed in the UI.

At the same time we count a total distance and time for the route, which the UI can also access.

Next week we will work on refining this and finding bugs to make it ready for a merge into master.
