# Release v.0.10

_Released on Friday May 7th, 2021_

This week we have focused on making a lot of changes  to existing features to combine and optimize them.

We have made a jar file with the map of Denmark in .obj format. Note that the program at this time takes some resources in both memory usage and time to open. We expect to improve this in the coming week by optimizing the obj-saver and improve how we handle files under parsing and runtime in related to garbage collection.
#### Minor additions
Migrated the list of Tag in Member to be a single tag, this has affected things in OSMParser, MapCanvas, Edge, Relation and Way. 
We can now merge large relations, so they get filled correctly.
Move rolemap from Member to Way, as this is the only place it is required. To use for inner and outer.

### Added
- Added the ability to search for a complete address instead of only a road name #231
- Added support for default transport types in settings
- More RTrees to improve redraw time
- Debugging tools for R-Trees
- Tags for a more detailed map
- New priority system for drawing
- Double drawing can be toggled in the debug-window to improve the visual look of roads
- The default color-scheme is replaced by a Google Maps inspired theme

### Changed
- repaint method now uses the R-trees we have created
- Changed the naming of City and CityType classes to AreaName and AreaType to reflect responsibility
- Migrated the list of tags to single tag (#234)
- Changed the zoom-limit to now be calculated based on file-bounds (#223)
- R-trees now split better and find the actual nearest way.
- Drawables draw method now takes renderingStyle as parameter, so we can treat relations the same way as ways.
- Changed draw method of Relation to implement the Drawable-interface so it is consistent with other drawables 
- Moved HashMap rolemap from Member to Way
- Fixed an issue where an ArrayList in AStar was not instantiated correctly
- Fixed issue where Debug used a deprecated method. This is now replaced by a method with the same functionality.
- Fixed an issue where some cities would not appear as an AreaName
- Fixed an issue where AreaNames would appear with duplicated in wrong places

### Removed
- Removed Text on Linux (#218)
- List of members in Relation

### Performance Improvements

These performance test is testing the map of Samsø

| Dell XPS15 9500 | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week       | ~-ms               | ~-mB              | -mB            | -s                        |
| Last Week       | ~ms               | ~mB             | mB          | s                     |

**Note:** The Dell XPS15 runs linux and we have previusly had some issues with fonts and Linux causing the perfomance to tank. Therefore the city names is now permanently disabled in the program.

| MacBook Pro (Late 2014) | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week               | ~-ms               | ~-mB              | ~-mB           | -s                        |
| Last Week               | ~ms               | ~mB             | ~mB         | s                    |

### Feedback

### Next week
Next week we will focus on bugfixing and optimizing to make sure that the program is stable and can handle multiple relevant fileformats. Also we have some minor issues with system added points of interest, user points of interest and minor UI issues.
