_Released on Monday May 17th, 2021 at 22:00_

[DK Screenshot here]

### Search

[Screenshot here]

### Route

[Screenshot here]

### Settings

[Screenshot here]

### Points Of Interest

[Screenshot here]

### Nearby Attractions

[Screenshot here]

### Color Modes

[Screenshot here]

### Debug Window
The debug window enables you to see performance and toggle advanced debugging tool such as showing explored A* ways, view the lines of the Point of interest KD-tree and reduce the viewport area to view how we only draw elements inside the viewport. 

[Screenshot here]

### Small fixes this week

##### Vertex
A class Vertex has been added where all the Astar relevant things have been taken out of Node. 
- AreaNames and POI's are now included in OBJ Save/Load

#### AlertMessage
A class AlertMessage has been added. It displays a dialogue window with a default text message and a button to exit the window. This is used to report exceptions that occur when parsing data.  


#### Spatial Data Structure tests
The old KD-tree test class that was made when the kd-tree held nodes has been revamped to work witht the new POI_KDTree. There has also been added additional tests to increase coverage for the KD-tree.
The R-Tree has been given a new revamped test class. This test class covers most of the methods in Rtree, TreeLeaf and RtreeNode.

### Added
- Added an extra RTree for AreaNames.
- Islands now have rectangles and are only drawn if within viewport.
- remove method in POI_KDTree. it simply adds the POI to a list of removed POIs, checking the list whenever it is about to use the POI in any other method.
- AreaNames and POI's are now included in OBJ Save/Load
- Vertex class (#331)
- Increased Test Coverage for Spatial Datastructures (#332)
- Increased Test Coverage for Spatial Datastructures
- Added extensive error handling of OBJ loader (#255)
- Javadoc for the Rtree folder
- Javadoc for the POI_KDTree
- StartupErrorMessage for error handling (#345)
- Loading screen on fileselector (#349)
- More access modifiers (#350)
- Button for disabling POIs (#372)
- Added lines to headers in settings

### Changed
- Start the program from the file selector by default #307 
- Small fixes for pathfinding corner cases on large datasets
- Fix issue where POI's could not be deleted and would be duplicated in Settings list 
- Fix issue where "Remove Pin" would not work
- Change zoomlimit where UserPOI is displayed and reduced UserPOI memory usage
- Node AreaNames now return a point-rectangle instead of throwing a null-pointer exception, due to trying to return a way-rectangle.
- changed displayed text for roads with no name. Now writes "Unnamed *type* road"
- Moved double-draw option from debug window to settings
- smaller Islands only have their names written if they are big enough, relative to the screen.
- Regex is used to get a cleaned string for Radix suggestions (#328)
- Astar route are now drawn bigger that other ways
- Astar is optimized memory wise, since we dont store pathfinding related data in Node anymore. (#331)
- Astar path description method has been split up (#340)
- Cleaned code, modified multiple if statements and made variables final
- Changed window name (#348)
- Fixed an issue where ToggleGroups could have none selected
- Fix issue where remove pin would appear on a POI
- Methods for setting isCyclable and isWalkable (#363)
- Fix issue where loading would appear when canceling fileSelector
- Coordinates shown in UI is rounded to 5 decimals
- Fixed an issue where zooming and panning would not work if zoomed close into map.
- Fixed an issue where scalebar would not update after going to a place by searching or a POI (#380)

### Removed
- Removed contains and remove operations on PQ in AStar (#329)
- Removed coastlines from OBJ load/save (#282)
- Removed coastlines after parsing (#282)
- Removed unused imports
- Remove the ability to walk and cycle on ferry routes (#363)
- Remove unused header in settings

### Performance Improvements
Redraw time has drastically fallen, due to only drawing relevant fillables based on area, and Islands that are within our viewport.
Our memory usage has gone down as a result of moving a lot of fields from Node to Vertex.

These performance test is testing the map of Samsø.

| Dell XPS15 9500 | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week       | ~0.5ms               | ~150mB              | 169mB            | 3,051s                        |
| Last Week       | ~4ms               | ~130mB              | 227mB            | 2,852s                        |

| MacBook Pro (Late 2014) | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week               | ~3ms               | ~124mB              | ~132mB           | 6s                        |
| Last Week               | ~4ms               | ~94mB              | ~119mB           | 6,196s                        |

These performance test is testing the map of Denmark.

| Dell XPS15 9500 | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week       | ~0.5ms               | ~150mB              | 169mB            | 3,051s                        |
| Last Week       | ~4ms               | ~130mB              | 227mB            | 2,852s                        |

| MacBook Pro (Late 2014) | FPS (Time to draw) | Average RAM Usage | Peak RAM Usage | TTI (Time to interactive) |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| This Week               | ~3ms               | ~124mB              | ~132mB           | 6s                        |
| Last Week               | ~4ms               | ~94mB              | ~119mB           | 6,196s                        |

**Note:** The Dell XPS15 runs linux and we have previusly had some issues with fonts and Linux causing the perfomance to tank. Therefore the city names is now permanently disabled in the program.
